# A DRAFT Vision for software engineering @ NICE Digital in 18 months

## Engineering practice
We have a shared understanding of what we want good engineering to look like at NICE Digital. We have principles on how we build, test and release software. Important areas such as front-end, back-end, security and accessibility have guiding principles too. Principles help our engineering team to focus on what's important. Our engineering principles are concise, accessible and adaptable. New recruits are easy to on-board, knowing whats expected of them and how we work. This makes it easier for our developers to move between teams and projects.  We reuse and adapt the best principles from other organisations, so we don't waste time starting from scratch.

We agree on what quality means for the software we are building and how to measure it.  We use quality and performance metrics to identify and improve technical issues.  We understand what's good enough, and don't strive for perfection. We build software to expect failure and build in recovery, where possible.  Engineers have insights into how well our software runs in production. We use data to identify issues affecting the users of our systems. We respond and fix issues in a timely fashion.

Our principles and practices aren't "rules", they help us to release software changes quickly, safely and frequently.  

## Engineering governance
We use mature technologies for our core digital products. These are stable technologies that work and that our team are capable of leveraging. We understand emerging technology trends and their implications for the solution landscape. We identify technologies perceived to offer benefit to the business over existing technologies. We assess new technologies in a controlled way on projects that can handle the risk. We adopt technologies that show clear business value and avoid 'hype' technologies. Our technology radar helps the team to decide on which technologies to use. We give technical decision making to the teams that need it. Technical governance supports and challenges teams, and is not bureaucratic and prohibitive.  Our delivery teams can communicate the business value of fixing technical issues.  Teams feel that technology is enabling them to solve business problems, not hindering them.

## Engineering capability
We value a diverse team with diverse skills. We have guidance on career progression and have diverse learning paths to support different interests.  Our engineers know the engineering capabilities we need now and for the next 1-2 years. Developers take ownership of their unique career development plan. We motivate developers by finding them interesting, challenging and varied work. Developers see how their contribution adds value to the organisation.  Engineering leaders exist to serve the needs of their developers.  Leaders delegate responsibility to enable autonomy and help to develop skill.  Time and space is protected to learn and collaborate. We help developers to gain skills by finding mentors within our engineering team.  We have the engineering capability to solve business and user problems.  Engineers see a bright future for themselves at NICE and feel competent to help solve these problems.

## Engineering culture
Our developers have an awareness of user needs by observing user research. We collaborate with other disciplines to find optimal solutions to user's problems.  As developers we understand that we are not the users of our software.  We test our assumptions with real users.  We help each other out and encourage others to challenge the status quo to improve the way we work. A variety of internal engineering community events offer fun opportunities to learn. Communication of key engineering decisions is timely for the relevant people. We encourage feedback in all directions and staff feel safe to challenge management. We engage with other organisations across government to our mutual benefit. We engage with the local technology community in Manchester. We host public, daytime engineering events to promote our sustainable work-life-balance ethos. We open source our work and principles for the benefit of others. We recognise and celebrate good work. We acknowledge and learn from our mistakes.  Manchester recognises engineering @ NICE as a reputable software engineering team.